# VNHC-Sphere-over-a-sphere

Nonholonomic mechanics and virtual constraints on Riemannian homogeneous spaces

This a repository containing the Python code and the video of the numerical simulation presented in section 4 "Virtual nonholomic constraints on Riemannian homogeneous spaces" of the paper "Nonholonomic mechanics and virtual constraints on Riemannian homogeneous spaces", by Efstratios Stratoglou, Alexandre Anahory Simoes, Anthony Bloch, and Leonardo Colombo. The code is contained in the file "Sphere on a sphere.ipynb" and the video generated by the code is the file "rotating_spheres.mp4".

The abstract of the before mentioned paper is the following:

Nonholonomic systems are, so to speak, mechanical systems with a prescribed restriction on the velocities. A virtual nonholonomic constraint is a controlled invariant distribution associated with an affine connection mechanical control system. A Riemannian homogeneous space is, a Riemannian manifold that looks the same everywhere, as you move through it by the action of a Lie group. These Riemannian manifolds are not necessarily Lie groups themselves, but nonetheless possess certain symmetries and invariances that allow for similar results to be obtained. In this work, we introduce the notion of virtual constraint on Riemannian homogeneous spaces in a geometric framework which is a generalization of the classical controlled invariant distribution setting and we show the existence and uniqueness of a control law preserving the invariant distribution. Moreover we characterize the closed-loop dynamics obtained using the unique control law in terms of an affine connection. We illustrate the theory with new examples of nonholonomic control systems inspired by robotics applications.
